# SP23-Improving-Memory-Recall

# Project Description

This project focuses on asessing the differences between a user's preferred settings and a set of settings optimized for memory and recall. During the experiment the above code will be run to administer a testing suite first collecting preferential setting and then asessing a user's performance in terms of accuracy and speed through 3 different tests. Each test is formed from a memory recall evaluation consisting of 1 set of 10-15 words and their definitions. Each test will be administered one at a time and the order of each test will be randomized between subjects. The word font, position, size, and color alongside the time each word and its definition is present on the screen will be based on user input for test 1. For test 2. An amalgamation of user preferences and optimized settings will be used. For test 3, optimized settings based on previous research will be used. These changes in features will be our independent variables designed to evoke change in the dependent variables mentioned later. The order in which tests 1,2,3 are shown will be randomized to ensure a valid correlation outside of increased performance over time. Once the words from a single Test have been shown and looked over by the user, they will be tested on 2 separate features: Correct identification of definition based on a word, and time necessary to recall for each feature. These are our dependent (measured) variables. Additionally, after the Nth set is completed and the user has been tested on it, they will also be subjected to a recall test for the N-1th set. For the final set since there is no N+1th set to retest the Nth set, a dummy set with different settings will be presented but not quizzed. Once completed results will be calculated to determine whether preferential, mixed, or optimized settings outperform each other. Additionally, as the time allotted to each card may make a substantial difference a penalty coefficient may be implemented to reduce the score for tests in which a high allotted time per card is used. Finally a correlative value can be calculated between the user chosen features, the ones they performed best on, and the optimized features. In this way we seek to show that a user's preference may outweight a selection of the best criterion for textual memorization.
